the males in the patrolling party
consent something in the air
big red Missy B and Stella the older
females who've already given birth are
coming into season again as are some of
the younger females banded mongoose
breed regularly and with the pregnancy
of just two months an individual
breeding female can have up to five
litters a year that's a potential 15
pups each annually in a world where the
biggest gangs are the strongest breeding
regularly is a wise strategy the males
in the group compete for females and in
season female will be followed
religiously by one of the boys this
mates guard will stick close to its
female and one give the other boys a
look in the guard sticks to his girl
like glue hardly leaving her side for a
second during the few days that she's at
her most perceptive it's not easy and
although some of the younger males in
the group try and make guard it's a job
that it takes experience and it's often
the older males they do it more
successfully face is a middle ranking
male and he fancies himself as a bit of
a Casanova when it comes to the ladies
he's been guarding big red all day and
it's finally cornered her in the bushes
but she's clearly not impressed by his
technique it's not unusual for the
females to reject the amorous advances
of their suitors it must be very
irritating being followed around day and
night sometimes they express their
feelings quite locally
[Music]
Big Red's high-pitched screams attract
other mouths from the group and this
seems to be a deliberate move trace is
now torn between attempting to mate and
fighting love his love rivals it's a
sort of test if face can successfully
keep his rivals from mating her then
he's proved himself but he needs eyes in
the back of his head or a cheeky rival
might slip in and make her instead on
this occasion and despite all the
shouting big red gets her way and
manages to avoid a mating altogether
once she's decided she's ready she won't
be so coy